One thing that I wanna
call out here is you'll
notice that I am declaring
the reference or
I'm declaring a property on this,
that is of type widgetsfacade.
And if we go down here in the providers,
and so
this is one of the reasons why
I love dependency injection so
much, is I'm saying, hey,
provide widgetsfacade.
Instead, use this value over here.
And so it's very easy when
you're testing to override
a provider and
give it something else in exchange.
And so rarely do I ever use real
services or real dependencies.
And so, now I can come back here and
I can say TestBed.inject,
which then returns whatever you give it,
widgetsfacade.
Which now the question is,
is it returning the actual
widgetsfacade, or my mockwidgetsFacade?
Well, it's the mock.
And so now I can start to do
things in control how it behaves.
And so what does this look like?
What I've done here is that
I've created a new lib,
and it's just called testing.
And maybe I could call
it something else but
I found that I was creating the same
mocks across a bunch of different tests.
And so if I click on this, and
it's going to take me there.
It's doing this weird thing.
So what I'll do,
we'll go to widgetsmock and
you'll see here testing lib mocks widgets.
That in here I have a mockwidget so
I can just use this over and over.
I have an Emptywidget and
I have a mock service and
a mock facade And
all I'm doing is I'm using this
observable operator of which
whatever you put into it,
it just returns that as an observable.
And so I don't need to actually
do anything in this case,
but I'm overriding the injector and
I'm saying don't use the real one,
use this mock one.
And because when I call this
selectwidget the spy is catching it and
it's not doing anything.
But even if it did it's
just an empty method.
It's just to satisfy the interface of that
and so what you can do is I believe and.
I think it's like this or
might be a single.
Depends on what assertion library but
basically what you gonna do is you can say
I want to spy on this but
I also want to allow it to pass through.
And so in some cases,
you actually want to say I want to spy,
but I needed to actually go through and
continue into the rest of the application.
So before I go any further,
We've talked about the basic
component structure for testing.
And then I've talked about spies and
mocks,
and really we're using
those in conjunction.
Does anybody have any questions
about what I've just covered so far?
>> So the question I have is on
your presentational components,
we could actually do these
tests as well where we're
looking at the DOM right at the template?
And you were saying use those sparingly,
but
there will be times probably
where we need to do those tests?
>> On a presentation component
that you can use the debug
element to manipulate the DOM and
we should use it sparingly.
>> Is there an overhead by using those?
Because if I want to make sure
that something in the DOM in
the templates looking the way
should is there an overhead?
>> No, and you can.
What I would also recommend is that
this is what end to end testing is for.
And so I would use unit testing
to test units of logic.
So the question is, is there overhead for
using a debug element to write
assertions against the DOM?
There's not, and
there are times where I will use it.
But, it should not replace, and
integrated end-to-end testing strategy.
And so to that end is unit tests are for
units and
or units of code,
end to end testing is for
testing really how things
work end to end or
in relation to itself.
And so
with Cypress this is where this comes in.
Is I would test that it's
actually rendering in
Cypress, which is not
super hard to do versus
trying to write unit
style tests on the DOM.
My final point would be this.
That a lot of times
the things that are causing
us the most problems they're not big
huge issues in and of themselves.
That if you've ever had to walk a long
distance with a pebble in your shoe.
All of a sudden that pebble becomes very,
very, very painful.
And so I think it's interesting in terms
of the tension of the narrative arc of
this workshop is that, we're talking about
large scale production applications.
And what I'm having to constantly
pull everybody back to
is stop writing functions
that do more than one thing.
Stop nesting your logic structures.
Stop breaking the single
responsibility principle.
If you just did that, I would say
80% your problems would go away, and
you would be able to write
a lot of testable code.
And so reduce complexity, reduce coupling,
increase the right kind of cohesion.
And when you manage your complexity
in a way that is just one layer above
all interested parties, I'm going to
use that for the rest of my life.
So thank you Bernardo for
being the catalyst to that.
We can start to organize our
applications and our work into really
interesting things, which is why
we were able in a single day with
commentary is to really create this
workspace that has two applications.
That's pulling from an API that
has test with state management.
And there are things that I
encourage you to dig in and
look into and
see how things kind of fit together.
But the answer is not to increase
in terms of complexity but
really to increase your understanding,
which a lot of times
will feel like in a way,
you're going back to square one.
And everything becomes very simple.
And that's ultimately where I
want developers that I work with,
and that I train, and
that I spend time with is.
Let's go back to a place
where coding is so simple and
simplistic is that we can approach it with
a beginner's mind, and it makes sense.
And from there we start to extend it into
doing really interesting complicated,
ultimately scalable things
that we put into production